Blog: Using AMQP with Node-RED (#2450)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2024/08/using-amqp-with-node-red.md

## Comparing AMQP with MQTT and kafka

Choosing the right messaging protocol is essential for your project's success. With so many options available, it's easy to confuse whether AMQP, MQTT, or Kafka is the best fit. Each protocol has its strengths and specific use cases. In this guide, we'll compare these three protocols to help you understand which one is the best match for your needs.

| **Feature**            | **AMQP**                                  | **MQTT**                                   | **Kafka**                                    |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| **Purpose**            | Good for reliable message delivery with complex routing. | Best for lightweight messaging, especially with IoT devices. | Designed to handle large amounts of data quickly. |

> | **Message Delivery**   | Guarantees messages are delivered in the right order. | Tries to deliver messages, but sometimes the order or delivery isn't guaranteed. | Always delivers messages in the right order and ensures they are recovered. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Message Delivery**   | Guarantees messages are delivered in the right order. | Tries to deliver messages, but in some cases, the order or delivery isn't guaranteed. | Always delivers messages in the right order and ensures they are recovered. |
```

In this section, we’ll guide you through using AMQP with Node-RED. We'll cover setting up AMQP in Node-RED, configuring different exchange types, and integrating them into your flows. Throughout the guide, we will learn how to send and receive messages based on each exchange method.

### Prequiste

- **AMQP Supported Broker Server:** Ensure you have a running AMQP-supported broker server. For this guide, we are using RabbitMQ.
- **Node-RED AMQP Node:** Install the AMQP contrib node via Node-RED palette manager.

### Understanding AMQP Node configuration settings.

#### AMQP Broker 

   - **Host:** Specify the hostname or IP address where your AMQP broker is located. This tells your node where to connect.
   - **Port:** This is the network port the AMQP broker communicates with. The default port for AMQP is 5672, but it might differ if configured otherwise.
   - **vhost:** Virtual hosts segregate different environments or applications within the same broker instance. The default is `/,` but you might have specific virtual hosts for various use cases.
   - **Use TLS:** Enable TLS/SSL if the broker requires encrypted communication to ensure data security during transmission.

>    - **User:** The username required for authentication with the broker. RabbitMQ, for example, defaults to `guest`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **User:** The username required for authentication with the broker. RabbitMQ, for example, defaults to `guest`.
```
